##Problem Statement

The problem statement we were given by SAP was, "How might we improve the ability to manage inventory using drones?" The prompt addresses how retailers and other companies with large warehouses or open ports often struggled to manage their inventory because they did not know where an item is stored, if it is moved, and if so where it has been moved. Typically, a periodic full-stock inventory is taken manually, where someone walks around and cross checks all the items with the expected count. Some warehouses will employ a hybrid approach with both manual and technology based solutions, where a worker could for example walk around with a large paddle that records the data. However, height of the items is often an issue. Some enterprises such as Amazon have employed terrestrial robots in warehouses with success to automate tasks and do more efficient data capture. Since drones can be programmed to do different activities and are able to reach locations that are hard to reach by humans, it seems that they may be a logical solution to improve inventory management. Thus, the original prompt was two-fold: first, to evaluate if drones are a realistic way to improve inventory management in large warehouses, and second, to implement a system by which we would be able to do this.

After lengthy discussion with our liaisons and teaching team, however, we expanded the scope of the problem to include other non-warehouse settings. SAP had mentioned ports as another use case we could consider. We went to an Army Lab + DIUX Conference and considered focusing on military reconnaissance. Ultimately, we wanted to consider an application space that was impactful, relevant, and large-scale, so to that end, we eventually settled on developing a drone solution to help with search and rescue (SAR) operations. For more details on this shift, check out the design decisions or target customer documents in this repository.

###Design Criteria

We wanted our product to embody four key pillars: intuitive, unobtrusive, efficient, and insightful. To that end, some of our design criteria include ease of use for non-drone experts, robustness of system, safety for operators and other individuals in the region that a drone explores, ease of integration to preexisting systems, and depth of insights garnered from the application. As we have iterated on our product, we have striven to achieve these core design criteria.
